# Double-ML

Germany’s government is interested in reducing gender inequality, especially gender wage gaps and gender gaps in employment. They are considering the introduction of a set of policies that incentivize firms to shrink gender inequality in working conditions. First, the policy forces firms to internally publish salaries of all workers, so discrepancies in salaries can be detected by workers themselves. Second, firms are incentivized to encour- age salary negotiations. Third, firms are incentivized to offer childcare where needed for their employees to fulfill their duties.
The government has been made aware that, in parts of the United States, exactly these policies have been introduced and now asks you to evaluate the effectiveness of these policies in reducing gender inequality in wages and employment. The dataset genderinequality (provided in RData and csv formats) contains data on individuals in the U.S., some working in firms to which the new policies apply (these are the treated workers) and some working at firms to which the new policies do not apply (these are the untreated workers). The policies have been introduced in 2007 and we have panel data on workers for the years 2005 and 2010, i.e. before and after the introduction of the new policies. The table below describes the variables in the dataset.

The task is to (1) perform a statistical analysis evaluating the effectiveness of the new policies in reducing gender inequality in wages and employment, (2) raise potential difficulties in transferring the lessons learned for the U.S. to the German context, (3) and explain which parts of the populations are expected to gain the most/least from the new policies.
